site/content/download.md, before:

---
title: "Download RDF4J"
toc: true
---

You can either retrieve RDF4J via Apache Maven, or download the SDK or onejar directly.

# RDF4J 3.2.2 (latest)

RDF4J 3.2.2 is our latest stable release. It requires Java 8. For details on what’s new and how to upgrade, see the [release and upgrade notes](/release-notes/3.2.2).

- [RDF4J 3.2.2 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.2.2-sdk.zip)<br/>
  Full Eclipse RDF4J SDK, containing all libraries, RDF4J Server, Workbench, and Console applications, and Javadoc API.

- [RDF4J 3.2.2 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.2.2-onejar.jar)<br/>
  Single jar file for easy inclusion of the full RDF4J toolkit in your Java project.

- [RDF4J artifacts](https://search.maven.org/search?q=org.eclipse.rdf4j) on the [Maven Central Repository](http://search.maven.org/)

# Apache Maven 

You can include RDF4J as a Maven dependency in your Java project by including the following BOM (Bill-of-Materials):

    <dependencyManagement>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>
                <groupId>org.eclipse.RDF4J</groupId>
                <artifactId>rdf4j-bom</artifactId>
                <version>3.2.2</version>
                <type>pom</type>
                <scope>import</scope>
            </dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </dependencyManagement>

RDF4J is a multi-module project, you can pick and choose which libraries you need. To include the full project, simply import the following dependency:

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.eclipse.rdf4j</groupId>
      <artifactId>rdf4j-storage</artifactId>
      <type>pom</type>
    </dependency>

See the [Setup instructions](/documentation/programming/setup) in the
[Programmer’s documentation](/documentation/) for more details on Maven and
which artifacts RDF4J provides.

# Older releases

## RDF4J 3.1

- [RDF4J 3.1.4 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.1.4-sdk.zip)
- [RDF4J 3.1.4 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.1.4-onejar.jar)

## RDF4J 3.0

- [RDF4J 3.0.5 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.0.5-sdk.zip)
- [RDF4J 3.0.5 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.0.5-onejar.jar)

## RDF4J 2.5

- [RDF4J 2.5.5 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-2.5.5-sdk.zip)
- [RDF4J 2.5.5 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-2.5.5-onejar.jar)

# Source code and nightly builds

You can access the RDF4J source code directly from [our GitHub repositories](https://github.com/eclipse/rdf4j). Maven nightly snapshot builds for the master branch are available from the [Sonatype snapshot repository](https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/org/eclipse/rdf4j/).

To include nightly snapshot builds in your project, add this repository to your project’s POM:

     <repositories>
        <repository>
          <id>oss.sonatype.org-snapshot</id>
          <url>http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
          <releases>
            <enabled>false</enabled>
          </releases>
          <snapshots>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
          </snapshots>
        </repository>
     </repositories>

Then use RDF4J dependencies as normal, using 3.2.3-SNAPSHOT as the version number.

# Archives

Old releases of OpenRDF Sesame (the predecessor of Eclipse RDF4J) can be found on [Sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/sesame).

# License

Eclipse RDF4J is licensed to you under the terms of the [Eclipse Distribution License (EDL), v1.0](https://eclipse.org/org/documents/edl-v10.php).

Commit message:

initial release documents for 3.3.0-m1
Signed-off-by: Håvard Ottestad <hmottestad@gmail.com>

site/content/download.md, after:

---
title: "Download RDF4J"
toc: true
---

You can either retrieve RDF4J via Apache Maven, or download the SDK or onejar directly.

# RDF4J 3.2.2 (latest)

RDF4J 3.2.2 is our latest stable release. It requires Java 8. For details on what’s new and how to upgrade, see the [release and upgrade notes](/release-notes/3.2.2).

- [RDF4J 3.2.2 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.2.2-sdk.zip)<br/>
  Full Eclipse RDF4J SDK, containing all libraries, RDF4J Server, Workbench, and Console applications, and Javadoc API.

- [RDF4J 3.2.2 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.2.2-onejar.jar)<br/>
  Single jar file for easy inclusion of the full RDF4J toolkit in your Java project.

- [RDF4J artifacts](https://search.maven.org/search?q=org.eclipse.rdf4j) on the [Maven Central Repository](http://search.maven.org/)

# RDF4J 3.3.0 Milestone 1

RDF4J 3.3.0-M1 is the first milestone build for the upcoming 3.3.0 release. It requires Java 8.

- [RDF4J 3.3.0-M1 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.3.0-M1-sdk.zip)<br/>
  Full Eclipse RDF4J SDK, containing all libraries, RDF4J Server, Workbench, and Console applications, and Javadoc API.

- [RDF4J 3.3.0-M1 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.3.0-M1-onejar.jar)<br/>
  Single jar file for easy inclusion of the full RDF4J toolkit in your Java project.


# Apache Maven 

You can include RDF4J as a Maven dependency in your Java project by including the following BOM (Bill-of-Materials):

    <dependencyManagement>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>
                <groupId>org.eclipse.RDF4J</groupId>
                <artifactId>rdf4j-bom</artifactId>
                <version>3.2.2</version>
                <type>pom</type>
                <scope>import</scope>
            </dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </dependencyManagement>

RDF4J is a multi-module project, you can pick and choose which libraries you need. To include the full project, simply import the following dependency:

    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.eclipse.rdf4j</groupId>
      <artifactId>rdf4j-storage</artifactId>
      <type>pom</type>
    </dependency>

See the [Setup instructions](/documentation/programming/setup) in the
[Programmer’s documentation](/documentation/) for more details on Maven and
which artifacts RDF4J provides.

# Older releases

## RDF4J 3.1

- [RDF4J 3.1.4 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.1.4-sdk.zip)
- [RDF4J 3.1.4 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.1.4-onejar.jar)

## RDF4J 3.0

- [RDF4J 3.0.5 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.0.5-sdk.zip)
- [RDF4J 3.0.5 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-3.0.5-onejar.jar)

## RDF4J 2.5

- [RDF4J 2.5.5 SDK (zip)](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-2.5.5-sdk.zip)
- [RDF4J 2.5.5 onejar](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/rdf4j/eclipse-rdf4j-2.5.5-onejar.jar)

# Source code and nightly builds

You can access the RDF4J source code directly from [our GitHub repositories](https://github.com/eclipse/rdf4j). Maven nightly snapshot builds for the master branch are available from the [Sonatype snapshot repository](https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/org/eclipse/rdf4j/).

To include nightly snapshot builds in your project, add this repository to your project’s POM:

     <repositories>
        <repository>
          <id>oss.sonatype.org-snapshot</id>
          <url>http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
          <releases>
            <enabled>false</enabled>
          </releases>
          <snapshots>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
          </snapshots>
        </repository>
     </repositories>

Then use RDF4J dependencies as normal, using 3.2.3-SNAPSHOT as the version number.

# Archives

Old releases of OpenRDF Sesame (the predecessor of Eclipse RDF4J) can be found on [Sourceforge](http://sourceforge.net/projects/sesame).

# License

Eclipse RDF4J is licensed to you under the terms of the [Eclipse Distribution License (EDL), v1.0](https://eclipse.org/org/documents/edl-v10.php).
